Updates autocert settings reference page (#1528)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/reference/autocert.mdx

id: autocert
title: Autocert Settings
description: |

>   Enable Autocert and Autocert settings to retrieve, manage, and renew public-facing TLS certificates from Let's Encrypt.

Author: I forgot to update the front matter here. I'll commit your suggestion for now but may tweak it after further review.

# Autocert Settings

> Pomerium’s Autocert settings provide a certificate issuance and management service in accordance with the [automated certificate management environment](https://letsencrypt.org/2019/03/11/acme-protocol-ietf-standard.html) (ACME) protocol.

Reviewer: Let's be a little careful with the phrasing here. To me this reads like it's saying Pomerium is the certificate issuer, but that isn't the case.

I'm also wondering about the ACME protocol link — that URL looks like an announcement about the ACME protocol but I'm not sure if it gives the most useful context on what it is. I'm not sure if there's a nice summary explanation of this somewhere (the [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_Certificate_Management_Environment) introduction isn't super helpful either). There's always the official RFC: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555.

What do you think of this?

```suggestion
The Autocert settings configure Pomerium to manage public-facing TLS certificates automatically, by integrating with a certificate authority that supports the [ACME protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555), such as [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).
```

Author: My reasoning originally was that the Let's Encrypt article links to the RFC, so the user would likely follow that path if they really wanted to  know. But, I didn't consider the fact that you can configure your preferred CA. Linking to the source of truth and ultimate authority here makes more sense.

:::note Autocert support

The suite of Autocert settings listed below are supported only in [Pomerium Core](/docs/core) configurations. Here's what you should know about ACME support in other Pomerium products:

- Pomerium Enterprise users should note that Autocert cannot be configured in the [Enterprise Console](/docs/enterprise#enterprise-console) or the Pomerium Enterprise [configuration file](/docs/enterprise/configure). Autocert is a bootstrap setting, meaning it must be configured in Pomerium Core (either in a configuration file or as an environment variable) before running Pomerium Enterprise.

- Kubernetes users should refer to the [Cert-Manager integration](/docs/k8s/ingress#cert-manager-integration) section for more information on configuring automated certificate management in the Pomerium Ingress Controller.

- Pomerium Zero users should note that Pomerium automatically manages certificates for [starter domains](/docs/concepts/clusters#starter-domain) and [custom domains](/docs/capabilities/custom-domains).

:::

> ## Autocert {#autocert}

Reviewer: I think a lot of the information in this section could be moved up into the overall summary.

High level comment: I think we should aim to structure this so we put the most important information first, and I'm not sure we achieve that so much of the information is tucked away under the setting headers and the headers are ordered alphabetically.

Author: I feel like there are two approaches to this:
- Include this information at the top and less details in the settings themselves. This is ideal assuming most users start at the top and work their way down.
- Include the pertinent details under the settings themselves, not the top, in case users enter a page by Algolia search or a reference page filtered search. In this case, they'd miss the details at the top.

I'd imagine most users would land on the page and scroll to the setting without reading the summary, or be directed to a setting from the reference page or Algolia search  to read how to configure it. 

In the case of Autocert and Autocert Directory, they'd then see that Autocert must be used in conjunction with the Autocert Directory setting. If you provide this at the top of the page, users might skim over it or miss it entirely. 

I'm not opposed to moving it to the top, but this is something I considered when making changes. What are your thoughts here?

Author: The more I think about it, though, logically you'd expect to see the most critical details at the top of a page, not buried under a setting you may miss. Happy to discuss more on Slack or a quick call, though.

Author: Updated.

> The **Autocert** setting enables Pomerium to automatically retrieve, manage, and renew public-facing TLS certificates from [Let's Encrypt][letsencrypt] to secure Pomerium-managed route domains and the authenticate service (Autocert is not supported with the [Hosted Authenticate Service](/docs/capabilities/hosted-authenticate-service)).

Reviewer: Where did the part about Hosted Authenticate come from?

Author: The original definition included "the authenticate service".  Wouldn't users want to know that it's not supported when using the hosted authn service?

> Autocert can incorporate also certificates available in the system trust store and certificates set manually in the Pomerium configuration. These certificates will take precedence over generated certificates when applicable to configured routes.

Reviewer: I think I mentioned this in Slack, but I don't know that this is accurate. I think it would be unusual to configure a server application certificate via the system trust store.

Author: I updated this section to remove the system trust store detail.

> Before Autocert can provision certificates, it must complete either the [HTTP-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge) or [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01) challenge. The HTTP-01 challenge requires internet access to port 80; the TLS-ALPN-01 challenge requires internet access to port 443. Autocert does not support `DNS-01` challenges, which is required to generate wildcard certificates.

Reviewer: I think this could be clearer— "before" feels like the wrong word to describe this process. Maybe something more like this? "When requesting or renewing a certificate, Pomerium performs either the HTTP-01 or TLS-ALPN-01 challenge. The DNS-01 challenge is not supported."

The part about "requires internet access to port 80" also feels a little muddled. The important points are:
- using the HTTP-01 challenge requires setting up an HTTP redirect listener on port 80 — we can link to /docs/reference/http-redirect-address here
- using the TLS-ALPN-01 challenge requires that the Address setting uses port 443

Author: Ah OK, I wasn't sure if the "internet accessible" detail was important here, or if it just meant an available, open port. Seems like they're saying the same thing. I appreciate the clarification. I'll update.

> You must use the [Autocert Directory](#autocert-directory) setting with Autocert to store and share certificate data between Pomerium services.

Reviewer: I think this is a good example of something that should be higher up on the page.

> :::caution Autocert usage limits

Reviewer: This part is really specific to Let's Encrypt, not to Autocert in general.

Author: Good point. I think since we use LE by default, it still makes sense to include this information somewhere. Maybe we could change the admonition title to "Let's Encrypt usage limits" and change the text say something along the lines of, "If you use the default Let's Encrypt CA with Autocert, you agree to LE's subscriber agreement."

> By using Autocert, you agree to the [Let's Encrypt Subscriber Agreement](https://letsencrypt.org/documents/LE-SA-v1.2-November-15-2017.pdf). Let's Encrypt enforces [_strict_ usage limits](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/) per domain you should be aware of. Consider testing Autocert with [`autocert_use_staging`](/docs/reference/autocert) first.

Reviewer: Looks like there's a newer version of the subscriber agreement: https://letsencrypt.org/documents/LE-SA-v1.4-April-3-2024.pdf (linked from https://letsencrypt.org/repository/#let-s-encrypt-subscriber-agreement).
